## UPDATE 3-Canada to set climate change tests in pipeline reviews
-Trudeau


445 words

26 January 2016

22:34

Reuters News

LBA

English

Copyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

(Adds company comments, updates with LNG details)

By Allison Lampert

MONTREAL, Jan 26 (Reuters) - Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau
pledged on Tuesday to require that environmental reviews of oil
pipelines and LNG export projects consider greenhouse gas effects,
and said it was not his role to be a cheerleader for such projects.

The Liberal government said the new rules would be rolled out within
days, and that they would take into account not just the greenhouse
gas emissions from a proposed pipeline or liquefied natural gas
terminal but also its "upstream" effects, meaning the impact of oil
and gas production.

Trudeau did not make clear how much weight would be applied to the
emissions. U.S. President Barack Obama rejected TransCanada Corp
's Keystone XL pipeline from Canada last year, citing the effect it
could have on climate change.

"The federal role is to put into place a process by which TransCanada
and any other company could demonstrate that their projects are in the
public interest and could have public support," Trudeau told reporters
after meeting Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre, who opposes TransCanada
's Energy East pipeline.

Energy East would carry 1.1 million barrels of crude oil from Alberta
and Saskatchewan across numerous provinces to refineries and export
terminals in eastern Canada.

"What we are going to roll out very soon, as we promised in our
election campaign, is to establish a clear process which will consider
all the greenhouse gas emissions tied to a project, which will build
on the work already done."

The Liberals have pledged to strengthen Canada's environmental process
and have been working on a transition plan for projects currently under
review to ensure they adhere to a higher standard without having to
return to square one.

The new rules would apply to major pipeline and LNG projects like
TransCanada 's Energy East, Kinder Morgan 's Trans Mountain expansion
and the Petronas-led Pacific NorthWest LNG export terminal.

Projects with existing environmental certificates and pipelines
regulated on a provincial level would not be impacted.

Ali Hounsell, spokeswoman for the $5.4 billion Trans Mountain project,
said it was too soon to comment on the impact of the new rules but
added the company would be eyeing changes to timing.

"When you look at additional process, the key issue for us is
timeline," she said. "A small delay in timeline can result in a longer
delay on the other end."


TransCanada said it is prepared to work with government to ensure the
"safe and environmentally sound" transport of resources to market.

Released: 2016-1-26T22:34:31.000Z

Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC

Document LBA0000020160126ec1q00g4p
