## Clinton's break with Obama on Syria \_ what's next


By KEN THOMAS

Associated Press

893 words

15 August 2014

23:58

Associated Press Newswires

APRS

English

\(c\) 2014. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

WASHINGTON (AP) — Hillary Rodham Clinton's split with President
Barack Obama over a foreign policy "organizing principle" isn't
likely to be the last time differences emerge between the two. How
she handles those breaks could be among her biggest challenges to a
successful run for president in 2016.

While Obama and Clinton share similar views in many areas, the former
first lady's interview with The Atlantic offered her most significant
break with her onetime campaign rival.

She said Obama's "failure" to back the rebels in Syria led to the
rise of Islamic State militants in Iraq. She appeared dismissive of
Obama's approach to foreign policy, saying "'don't do stupid stuff'
is not an organizing principle."

Clinton will likely seek some separation from Obama if she runs
for president — especially if Obama's approval ratings stay near
40 percent.  But decoupling from a two-term president of your own
party can be tricky.

Republican Sen. John McCain was weighed down by President George W.
Bush's poor approval ratings in 2008 and Democrats' contention that
electing McCain was tantamount to a third Bush term. In 2000, many
Democrats urged Vice President Al Gore to campaign more emphatically
on President Bill Clinton's economic success instead of distancing
himself from the Monica Lewinsky scandal.

Here's a look at a few areas where Obama and Clinton's views will be
closely watched as 2016 approaches.

FOREIGN POLICY:

How Obama handles a series of foreign crises — Iraq, Gaza, Ukraine
and Syria — could directly influence a future Clinton campaign.

The president's decision to launch airstrikes in Iraq comes only two
years after he campaigned for re-election on a record that included
ending the Iraq war.

In her book "Hard Choices," Clinton wrote that she "came to deeply
regret" her vote to authorize the war, a decision that Obama used as
a foil in the 2008 campaign. Clinton has not yet commented publicly
on Obama's latest moves in Iraq.

The book includes instances in which she and Obama shared divergent
views. In Egypt, she wrote that she was concerned about the U.S. being
seen as pushing out a long-term partner in Hosni Mubarak without a
clear picture of the region's future.

But Republicans say Clinton will be hard-pressed to draw such
distinctions, since she was an integral member of his team as secretary
of State.

"It's certainly hard to see how she doesn't own the foreign policy
record of this administration," said GOP strategist Ralph Reed.

ECONOMY:

Clinton often talks about the challenges faced by many Americans
who haven't benefited from the economic recovery. Obama has presided
over steady job growth during the past six months but it remains to
be seen whether Clinton could run on an economic comeback story.

In a July interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel , Clinton
said the research of economist Thomas Piketty showed that income
inequality is "threatening to democracy."

"Even during the Great Depression people in the streets believed that
they could make it and they would be better off. Now the relative
wealth is much higher, but the disparity makes people believe that
they're stuck," said Clinton, who has pointed to her husband's economic
record as a model.

IMMIGRATION:

Clinton has kept a close line with Obama on immigration — both on
the need for a comprehensive overhaul and the influx of unaccompanied
minors from Central America across the U.S.-Mexican border.

Clinton said last month she supported creating a refugee screening
process for the children in their home countries to discourage the
dangerous journeys to the U.S., an approach that is similar to a
pilot program under consideration by the White House.

Obama is expected to announce executive actions to address immigration,
which could include a plan to give work permits to millions of
immigrants living in the country illegally.

CLIMATE CHANGE:

Clinton told college students in March she hopes for a "mass movement"
on climate change, signaling the issue could figure prominently in
a campaign.

Obama plans to attend a United Nations

summit on climate change next month and speak at the Clinton Global
Initiative meeting, where one session is titled "Confronting Climate
Change is Good Economics."

Environmentalists are awaiting a decision by Obama on the Keystone
XL pipeline, which would carry oil in western Canada to refineries
on the Gulf Coast. Environmentalists oppose the pipeline, and Obama
has said he would allow it to be built only if it doesn't exacerbate
carbon pollution.

Clinton has avoided directly commenting on the project, citing the
ongoing review.

\_\_\_

Follow Ken Thomas on Twitter at https://twitter.com/AP\_Ken\_Thomas
\[https://twitter.com/AP\_Ken\_Thomas\] at

In this Aug. 13, 2014, photo, former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton holds her memoir "Hard Choices" at Bunch of Grapes Bookstore,
in Vineyard Haven, Mass., on the island of Martha's Vineyard, during a
book signing event for her memoir "Hard Choices." Clinton's split with
President Barack Obama over a foreign policy "organizing principle"
isn't likely to be the last time differences emerge between the
two. How she handles those breaks could be among her biggest challenges
to a successful run for president in 2016. (AP Photo/Steven Senne)

The Associated Press

Document APRS000020140815ea8f0039q


## Codes

* @iteration 2022-03-03
* #unrelated
