## BC-TX--Texas News Coverage Advisory 8:30 am, TX


1212 words

29 January 2015

16:30

Associated Press Newswires

APRS

English

\(c\) 2015. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

Good morning! Here's a look at how AP's general news coverage is
shaping up today in Texas. Questions about today's coverage plans
are welcome, and should be directed to 972-991-2100.

A reminder: This information is not for publication or broadcast,
and these coverage plans are subject to change. Expected stories may
not develop, or late-breaking and more newsworthy events may take
precedence. Advisories, digests and digest advisories will keep you
up to date.

Some TV and radio stations will receive shorter APNewsNow versions
of the stories below, along with all updates.

UPCOMING TODAY:

JUVENILE JUSTICE

AUSTIN, Texas — A new study concludes that the Texas juvenile
justice system's shift away from housing youths in state-run detention
facilities has coincided with a sharp drop in crime committed by
young people. The report commissioned by Texas and compiled by the
Justice Center at the nonpartisan Council of State Governments is
being unveiled Thursday in Austin. It tracked 1.3 million case records
between 2007 and 2011. By Will Weissert. SENT: 130 words. UPCOMING:
400 words by 1:30 p.m. CT.

TEXAS EXECUTION

HUNTSVILLE, Texas — A man convicted of killing a mentally disabled
East Texas woman by strangling her and beating her with a hammer nearly
two decades ago wants the U.S. Supreme Court to stay his execution. If
it goes ahead as scheduled Thursday evening, Robert Ladd's execution
will be the second in Texas this year. By Michael Graczyk. SENT:
130 words, photo. UPCOMING: 500 words, developing from execution
scheduled for after 6 p.m. CT, photo.

MUSLIM RALLY

AUSTIN, Texas — Hundreds of Muslims are planning a rally at the
Texas Capitol and to meet with lawmakers during the biennial Texas
Muslim Capitol Day. Organizers say demonstrators are expected to
protest against Thursday's rally, which is sponsored by the Council
on American-Islamic Relations .  Executive Director Mustafaa Carroll
said the event began in 2003 and has never drawn opposition before,
but this year online threats have prompted the council to contact
the FBI . By Eva Ruth Moravec. SENT: 110 words.  UPCOMING: 400 words,
developing from 10:30 a.m. CT rally, photos.

PIPELINE SPILLS-KEYSTONE

BILLINGS, Mont. — Oil pipeline accidents have become increasingly
frequent in the U.S. as Congress pushes for approval of the Keystone
XL pipeline — a project that would pass near the spot where 30,000
gallons of crude spilled into Montana's Yellowstone River earlier
this month.  The recent spill temporarily fouled a city's water supply
and became the latest in a string of accidents to highlight ongoing
problems with maintenance of the nation's 61,000 miles of crude oil
pipelines. By Matthew Brown. SENT: 810 words, photos.

FORT HOOD SHOOTING-HASAN

FORT LEAVENWORTH, Kansas — An Army psychiatrist who killed 13
people in a shooting rampage at a Texas Army base is set to appear
in court. Nidal Hasan is scheduled to attend a hearing Thursday at
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, where he is being held on military death
row. Army officials say the judge, Col. Tara Osborn, wants to review
"routine matters" in Hasan's case. SENT: 130 words, photo. UPCOMING:
400 words, developing from 10 a.m. CT hearing, photo.

EPA-SMOG HEARING

ARLINGTON, Texas — The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is
holding a public hearing in North Texas on its proposal to tighten
the national standard on smog. At the hearing Thursday in Arlington,
EPA officials will discuss the proposal to reduce the acceptable
level of smog, or ground-level ozone, from 85 to 65 or 70 parts
per billion. The American Lung Association says the EPA 's proposal
doesn't go far enough and that ozone levels shouldn't exceed 60 parts
per billion. SENT: 130 words.  UPCOMING: Developing based on merits.

LESSER PRAIRIE CHICKEN-VOTE

KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The U.S. Senate has rejected an amendment by
Sen. Jerry Moran of Kansas that would have removed the lesser prairie
chicken from the federal government's threatened species act. The
Kansas City Star reports Moran's amendment to a bill intended to
expedite construction of the Keystone XL pipeline fell short of the
60 votes needed to be added to the measure. SENT: 130 words. UPCOMING:
300 words.

IN BRIEF:

— OFFICER-INVOLVED SHOOTING-NORTH TEXAS: The state's public safety
department says a suspect was fatally shot after he killed a police
dog following a car chase in North Texas. SENT: 130 words.

— BANK ROBBERY-TELLERS: Two tellers are among four people charged
in a 2010 Houston-area bank robbery in which a gunman stole $30,000
and fled on a bicycle. SENT: 130 words.

— COLD CASES-DALLAS: Dallas police are turning to social media to
help solve homicide cases that have gone cold. SENT: 130 words.

— EL PASO ZOO-ORANGUTAN: El Paso Zoo officials say Ibu the Sumatran
orangutan is pregnant with her first baby. Zookeepers say she is about
four months along and expect her give birth in late April or early May.
SENT: 130 words.

— WICHITA FALLS-FAKE WEBSITE: A North Texas city has warned online
users about a fake website that does not represent municipal government
and possibly targets vendors. SENT: 130 words.

— STEEL MILL-FIRE: Nobody has been hurt in a small explosion and
fire at a Dallas-area steel mill. SENT: 130 words.

BUSINESS:

EARNS- CONOCOPHILLIPS


HOUSTON — Hurt by falling oil prices, ConocoPhillips reported a loss
during its fourth quarter and said it would cut spending on drilling
and exploration projects in parts of the U.S. "We are responding
decisively to a weak price outlook in 2015," said CEO and Chairman
Ryan Lance, in a statement. Oil prices have fallen below $50 a barrel,
down from as much as $100 a barrel in June, due to an oversupply of
oil. SENT: 270 words.

EARNS- VALERO ENERGY


SAN ANTONIO — Valero Energy Corp . (VLO) on Thursday reported
fourth-quarter earnings of $1.16 billion. On a per-share basis, the San
Antonio-based company said it had profit of $2.22. Earnings, adjusted
for non-recurring gains, came to $1.83 per share. SENT: 190 words.

EARNS-PHILLIPS 66

HOUSTON — Phillips 66 (PSX) on Thursday reported fourth-quarter
profit of $1.15 billion. The Houston-based company said it had net
income of $2.05 per share. Earnings, adjusted for non-recurring gains,
were $1.63 per share. SENT: 150 words.

\_\_\_

If you have stories of regional or statewide interest, please email
them to aptexas@ap.org. If you have photos of regional or statewide
interest, please send them to the AP state photo center in New York
at statephotos@ap.org and call the photo desk at (888) 273-6867. For
access to AP Exchange and other technical issues, contact AP Customer
Support at apcustomersupport@ap.org or 877-836-9477.

MARKETPLACE: Calling your attention to the Marketplace in AP Exchange,
where you can find member-contributed content from Arkansas and other
states. The Marketplace is accessible on the left navigational pane
of the AP Exchange home page, near the bottom. For both national and
state, you can click "All" or search for content by topics such as
education, politics and business.

The AP-Dallas

The Associated Press

Document APRS000020150128eb1s005k4


## Codes

* @iteration 2022-03-03
* #duplicate
