## AFPTV-Advisory 1000GMT


1341 words

9 January 2015

11:28

Agence France Presse

AFPR

English

Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2015 All reproduction and presentation
rights reserved.

-- TOP WORLD NEWS -

\+ FRANCE ATTACK

Please see special advisory for our full and in-depth coverage of
the terror attacks on Charlie Hebdo in France.

\+ SRI LANKA ELECTION

Coming up:

COLOMBO: Sirisena formally accepts victory at election commissioner's
office. RAW. 1100 GMT

COLOMBO: Maithripala Sirisena to be sworn in as Sri Lanka's new
president. RAW. TBA

Filed over past 12 hours:

COLOMBO: President Mahinda Rajapakse concedes
defeat. RAW. VID705382\_EN

-Maithripala Sirisena arriving at the election commissioner's office.
RAW. VID705379\_EN

-Celebrations as Sri Lanka strongman toppled in election. RAW.
VID705349\_EN

-Supporters of Sri Lanka's presidential candidates celebrate
following the close of polls in in the tightest presidential race in
decades. RAW.  VID705168\_EN

Still available:

COLOMBO: Presidential candidates cast their ballots. RAW. VID704938\_EN

POLONNARUWA, SRI LANKA: Voters in central Sri Lanka cast their ballots.
RAW. VID704743\_EN

COLOMBO: Polls open in the capital. RAW. VID704723\_EN, VID704672\_EN

-- OTHER WORLD NEWS --

\+ EUROPE

Coming up:

GENEVA: World experts discuss the results of the first clinical
trials of anti-Ebola vaccines in a teleconference organised by the
World Health Organization . RAW. 1600 GMT

KIEV: Following the crisis in Ukraine. RAW. TBC

Filed over past 12 hours:

ZAGREB: Croatian president Ivo Josipovic holds rally ahead of run-off
vote. VID705329\_EN

LONDON: Decision in the appeal case of MyFerryLink shipping company
and the British Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) . Last
summer the CMA decided to ban the company, which rents its boats to
Eurotunnel , saying MyFerryLink should be independent of Eurotunnel
. FILE. VID576517\_EN

LONDON: Wes Anderson's stylish comedy "The Grand Budapest Hotel"
leads the pack with 11 nominations for the Baftas, the British film
gongs that often signal Oscar success. FILE. VID594826\_EN

\+ MIDDLE EAST & NORTH AFRICA

Coming up:

BEIRUT: Chief of the powerful Shiite Hezbollah movement Hassan
Nasrallah delivers a speech. RAW. TBC

JERUSALEM/GAZA/BEIRUT: Tracking developments in the region which was
battered by severe winter storms that have killed at least two Syrian
refugees in Lebanon. RAW. TBC

Filed over past 12 hours:

BAGHDAD: A team of camouflaged Iraqi soldiers line up near the door
of a one-storey house north of Baghdad with rifles ready, preparing
to enter and search. RAW. VID705036\_EN

TAJI BASE, IRAQ: US trains Iraqis on key skills for anti-IS fight. RAW.
VID705036\_EN

\+ AFRICA

Coming up:

MONROVIA/FREETOWN/CONAKRY/ GENEVA: Monitoring the fight against the
spread of the Ebola virus. TBC

MOMBASA: Bail hearing for suspected organised crime boss Feisal Ali
Mohammed -- alleged to be a leading figure in the illegal ivory trade
-- takes place in Kenya's port city of Mombasa. RAW. TBA

BAMAKO: Mali names a new prime minister with Modibo Keita taking over
after Moussa Mara resigned under pressure from the president of the
strife-torn west African nation. RAW. 2200 GMT

ACCRA: Reaction from Ghana as forecasts of cocoa production in the
country, the world's second largest producer, are revised down by 9
percent because of hot Saharan winds. RAW. TBA

Filed over past 12 hours:

CONAKRY: Several people, including police officers, are being treated
for injuries following Wednesday's rally by supporters of Guinea's
opposition parties. RAW. VID705270\_EN, VID704897\_EN

\+ NORTH AMERICA

Coming up:

WASHINGTON: The US House of Representatives votes on Keystone XL
oil pipeline.  Senate to vote next week, Obama has indicated he will
veto it. RAW. TBA

WASHINGTON: US unemployment figures for December are published as
President Obama visits Tennessee to promote his economic program.
STOCKSHOTS. 1400 GMT / RAW. TBA

NEW YORK: Sentencing of British cleric Abu Hamza, found guilty in
May of 11 kidnapping and terrorism charges. FILE PHOTOS. TBA

\+ ASIA-PACIFIC

Coming up:

JAKARTA/SURABAYA/PANGKALAN BUN, INDONESIA: Ongoing coverage of recovery
operation for AirAsia flight QZ8501.  TBC

DHAKA: Bangladesh hosts the World Muslim Congregation, world's second
largest annual gathering of Muslims after the Hajj pilgrimage. RAW. TBA

Filed over past 12 hours:

AT SEA, INDONESIA: Signals believed to be from the black box data
recorders of crashed AirAsia Flight 8501 are detected, offering the
strongest lead to explain the disaster.  RAW. VID705432\_EN

BEIJING: The son of kung fu star Jackie Chan admits drugs offences
and is sentenced to six months in prison. RAW. VID705367\_EN

SURABAYA, INDONESIA: Forensics experts work with families to identify
victims. RAW. VID705353\_EN

MANILA: More than a million hit the streets for the parade of the
Black Nazarene, a statue of Jesus. RAW. VID705384\_EN, VID705361\_EN

BANGKOK: Thailand's ousted prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra arrives
for an impeachment hearing that could see her banned from politics
for five years. RAW. VID705338\_EN

\+ LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN

Coming up:

RIO DE JANEIRO/SAO PAULO: Demonstrations against rising transport
costs.  RAW. 2300 GMT

Filed over past 12 hours:

PORT-AU-PRINCE: Haitians protest against president Martelly. RAW.
VID705359\_EN

CARACAS: Venezuela is battling a tough economic storm, sending
President Nicolas Maduro to China to raise finances. But ordinary
Venezuelans and analysts alike are worried that things will only get
worse. PKG. NSV - VID704660\_EN / VOICED - VID704659\_EN

APATZINGAN, MEXICO: Eight dead in a confrontation with Mexican police.
RAW. VID705317\_EN

LIMA: A Peru court handed an eight-year prison sentence Thursday
to jailed former president Alberto Fujimori for embezzlement. He
will serve the punishment concurrently with a 25-year sentence for
masterminding the killing of 25 people in the battle against the
armed group Shining Path in the 1990s. RAW. VID705314\_EN

PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI: The World Health Organization 's Haiti
representative says investment to prevent the spread of diseases
in the country "is not there", ahead of the 2010 earthquake
anniversary. RAW. VID703172\_EN

-- SPORT --

Coming up:

MADRID: Presentation of the Movistar cycling team, led by Colombian
Nairo Quintana, who won the Giro in 2014 and is already one of the
favorites for the 2015 Tour de France. RAW. 1700 GMT

Ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations which begins 17 Jan:

YAOUNDE: The Democratic Republic of Congo face Zambia, Tunisia and
Cape Verde in Group B, and have chosen Cameroon as their training
camp. RAW.  1200 GMT

Filed over past 12 hours:

MELBOURNE: Asia's top sports leaders refuse to back Prince Ali bin
Al Hussein's election challenge to FIFA president Sepp Blatter and
insist it is doomed to failure. RAW. VID705394\_EN

MELBOURNE: Australia kick off their bid for a first Asian Cup title
when they take on Kuwait in the tournament opener in Melbourne. RAW.
VID705340\_EN

LAGOS, NIGERIA: Yaya Toure is named African footballer of the year for
the fourth consecutive year. RAW. VID705286\_EN / FILE. VID703871\_EN

BOSTON: US Olympic Committee chooses Boston as bid city for 2024
Summer Games. STOCKSHOTS of Boston.  VID618684\_EN

-- FEATURES --

Coming up:

PORT-AU-PRINCE: The 2010 earthquake wiped large parts of Port-au-Prince
off the map, but now one open-source organisation is giving Haitians
access to reliable mapping in the palm of their hand. PKG. 2300 GMT

Filed:

PORT-AU-PRINCE: Haiti is facing political uncertainty, with a key
deadline in the ongoing battle between President and Parliament set
for the January 12th anniversary of the 2010 earthquake. PKG. NSV -
VID705287\_EN / VOICED - VID705288\_EN

RIM, BURKINA FASO: In 30 years Burkina Faso has managed to reclaim
3,000 km2 from the Sahel, showing that it is possible to push back
against the tide of desertification. PKG. NSV - VID705122\_EN /
VOICED - VID705123\_EN

PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI: In the months following the 2010 earthquake,
Haiti was hit with a second disaster in the form of a cholera epidemic.
Five years on, the disease is still claiming lives. PKG. NSV -
VID703978\_EN / VOICED - VID703979\_EN

Contact:

London desk: +44 207 776 2768

Hong Kong desk: +852 2829 6216

Nicosia desk: +357 22 391 450

Washington desk: +1 202 414 0550

Montevideo desk: +598 2 900 5095 ext 257

For contact via email: afptv-en@afp.com

Agence France-Presse

Document AFPR000020150109eb19004y1


## Codes

* @iteration 2022-03-03
* #duplicate
