## Obama is Democrat's biggest hurdle in Louisiana


By BILL BARROW

Associated Press

839 words

30 November 2014

01:28

Associated Press Newswires

APRS

English

\(c\) 2014. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

THIBODAUX, Louisiana (AP) — President Barack Obama may not be
on Louisiana's Senate runoff ballot, but it's clear his widespread
unpopularity in the state stands as Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu's
biggest hurdle to a fourth term.

Landrieu led an eight-candidate primary, but her 42 percent was only
16,000 votes ahead of Republican Rep. Bill Cassidy and far short of
her 2008 totals when she won without a runoff. Exit polls explain
the collapse: Landrieu got votes from 18 percent of whites, while
nearly three out of four white voters said they strongly disapprove
of the president.

"It's not so much a Mary thing as it is a Democrat thing and Obama
thing," said restaurant owner Dean Gehbauer of Thibodaux.

That makes Cassidy, a congressman from Baton Rouge, the favorite
on Dec.  6. A Cassidy win would push Republicans' new Senate majority
to 54 seats in January and complete the party's southern sweep of
top statewide offices from the Carolinas westward to Texas.

Election returns offer little to suggest Gehbauer is wrong. In the
last six years, Landrieu lost ground to Republicans in every Louisiana
parish. In 2008, she defeated Republican John Kennedy by 121,111 votes
statewide. This time, Cassidy and third-place finisher Rob Maness, an
ultraconservative tea-party favorite who has since endorsed Cassidy,
combined to lead Landrieu by 186,207 votes, a net swing of 307,318.

Thibodaux's surrounding parish — Lafourche — illuminates the
shift as one of 12 parishes that Landrieu won in 2008 but lost on
Nov. 4. She defeated Kennedy here by 265 votes, running about 8,000
votes ahead of Obama. This time, she trailed Cassidy by 3,277. Adding
Maness's support, her deficit was 8,922.

Landrieu never has surpassed 52.1 percent statewide, and the 2014
midterms always promised difficulty. In the presidential elections
of 1996 and 2008, she benefited from strong Democratic turnout,
particularly among African-Americans, that typically wanes in midterm
elections. She ran in the 2002 midterms as a moderate who worked with
Republican President George W. Bush, who twice carried Louisiana.

But this year, for the first time, Landrieu faces a midterm electorate
with the White House occupied by a Democrat who is widely unpopular
in her state, a circumstance that led to defeats for Democratic
incumbents in North Carolina, Arkansas and Alaska.

"This has been, first and foremost, a referendum on Barack Obama and
then only secondarily on Mary Landrieu," said Thibodaux attorney
Matthew Block, one of Landrieu's financial backers. "After that,
it was just a question of which Republican would catch fire."

Like her vanquished colleagues, Landrieu has tried to distance herself
from Obama. She touted her energy committee chairmanship as a boon
to this oil-rich state and noted her role in increasing Louisiana's
royalties from offshore exploration.

In mid-November, after Democrats' national thrashing in the Nov. 4
elections, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid allowed floor debate
on construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, a symbolic proxy of the
battle between the energy industry and environmental advocates. The
procedural vote fell one shy of the 60 needed to allow a final
vote. Instead of Landrieu affirming her influence, Republicans crowed
that she's of little value with Obama and Reid in charge.

Landrieu still highlights her work securing federal aid after
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. That garnered endorsements from
several local Republican leaders in 2008, but many of them are now
mum. Similarly, the

U.S. Chamber of Commerce abandoned Landrieu after endorsing her six
years ago, though the powerful lobby stopped short of backing Cassidy.

The senator has focused her television advertising on Cassidy's
support for Republican budgets that would curtail Social Security
and Medicare benefits. Yet exit polls still show she claimed 36
percent among voters age 65 and older, and 41 percent among voters age
45-64. Landrieu managed 50 percent among 18- to 29-year-olds, but that
group accounted for only an estimated 12 percent of the electorate.

\_\_\_

Associated Press reporter Melinda Deslatte contributed to this report
from Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

FILE - In this Nov. 18, 2014 file photo, Sen. Mary Landrieu, D-La.,
chair of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and the
Keystone XL oil pipeline bill sponsor, speaks during a news conference
on Capitol Hill in Washington. President Barack Obama may not be
on Louisiana's Senate runoff ballot, but it's clear his widespread
unpopularity in the state stands as Landrieu's biggest hurdle to
a fourth term. Landrieu led an eight-candidate primary, but her 42
percent was only 16,000 votes ahead of Republican Rep. Bill Cassidy
and far short of her 2008 totals when she won without a runoff. Exit
polls explain the collapse: Landrieu got votes from 18 percent of
whites, while nearly three out of four white voters said they strongly
disapprove of the president. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster, File)

The Associated Press

Document APRS000020141129eabt004r5


## Codes

* @iteration 2022-03-03
* #institution
