## Pipeline foes appeal to Nebraska lawmakers in testy hearing


By GRANT SCHULTE

Associated Press

1064 words

12 March 2015

02:08

Associated Press Newswires

APRS

English

\(c\) 2015. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) — Opponents of the Keystone XL pipeline appealed
to Nebraska lawmakers on Wednesday in their latest effort to overturn
the state law that allowed former Gov. Dave Heineman to approve a
route through the state.

About 60 landowners and activists rallied at the state Capitol in
Lincoln as pipeline developer TransCanada Corp . defended its use of
eminent domain to gain access to property owned by holdouts.

Their arguments in a nearly five-hour hearing included several testy
exchanges with senators who support the pipeline. Opponents asked
lawmakers to pass a bill that would reverse the 2012 pipeline-siting
law.

The law allowed TransCanada to bypass Nebraska's Public Service
Commission, which reviews most pipeline proposals, and seek approval
instead through a state agency overseen by the governor. Heineman,
a Republican, supported the project.

Sen. Ernie Chambers of Omaha said he introduced the bill as a "shot
across the bow" to TransCanada , and to give voice to landowners who
oppose the pipeline.

"Until now, the public — the people who have been affected directly
by this pipeline activity — have never had a seat at the table,"
Chambers said. "The ones at the table were politicians who ... were
in TransCanada 's pocket."

The pipeline would go from Canada through Montana and South Dakota
to Nebraska, where it would connect with existing pipelines to carry
more than 800,000 barrels of crude oil a day to refineries along the
Texas Gulf Coast.

In January, the Nebraska Supreme Court allowed the pipeline-siting
law to stand by default. Four judges on the seven-member court ruled
in favor of landowners who challenged the law, but a super-majority
of five was needed.

The remaining three judges refused to rule on the law, arguing they
couldn't because the plaintiffs in the lawsuit didn't have legal
standing. Opponents responded by filing a nearly identical lawsuit
with landowners who were directly affected.


TransCanada has said 90 percent of Nebraska landowners along the
Keystone XL route — and 100 percent of those in Montana and South
Dakota — have agreed to easements so the company can build the
pipeline.


TransCanada land manager Andrew Craig said eminent domain is a tool
of last resort that's needed to develop pipelines, railroads and
other infrastructure. Without that power, "a single landowner or
small group of landowners could block projects that deliver those
public benefits to Nebraskans," Craig said.

Some opponents accused lawmakers of ignoring their pleas for help.

"We feel like we're just being left out to dry," said Randy Thompson,
a rancher and longtime opponent who owned land along the first proposed
route before it was moved in 2013. "You don't listen to what our
concerns are."

But Sen. Bob Krist of Omaha railed against the opponents, saying he's
spent hours past listening to anti-pipeline groups to try to address
their concerns.

The pipeline, first proposed in 2008, still requires presidential
approval because it crosses an international border.

\_\_

The bill is LB473

Anti-pipeline activist Allen Schreiber of Lincoln wears a shirt
inscribed with slogans opposing the Keystone XL pipeline during a rally
outside the State Capitol in Lincoln, Neb., in support of LB 473, a
measure to repeal a 2012 law that allowed former Gov. Dave Heineman
to approve the route of the Keystone XL pipeline through the state.
Landowners and activists were planning to testify in support of the
measure later in the day at a committee hearing. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik)
| Anti-pipeline activist Allen Schreiber of Lincoln moves the podium
with slogans opposing the Keystone XL pipeline to make way for a group
photo, following a rally outside the State Capitol in Lincoln, Neb.,
in support of LB 473, a measure to repeal a 2012 law that allowed
former Gov. Dave Heineman to approve the route of the Keystone XL
pipeline through the state. Landowners and activists were planning
to testify in support of the measure later in the day at a committee
hearing. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) | Landowners and activists stand
outside the full Judiciary Committee hearing room before going to an
overflow room at the State Capitol in Lincoln, Neb., during a hearing
in about LB 473, a measure to repeal a 2012 law that allowed former
Gov. Dave Heineman to approve the route of the Keystone XL pipeline
through the state. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) | Landowner Byron "Stix"
Steskal speaks Wednesday, March 11, 2015, during a rally outside the
State Capitol in Lincoln, Neb., in support of LB 473, a measure to
repeal a 2012 law that allowed former Gov. Dave Heineman to approve
the route of the Keystone XL pipeline through the state. Steskal and
other activists were planning to testify in support of the measure
later in the day at a committee hearing. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) |
State Sen. Ernie Chambers of Omaha speaks Wednesday, March 11, 2015,
under the statue of Abraham Lincoln during a rally outside the State
Capitol in Lincoln, Neb., in support of LB 473, a measure he introduced
to repeal a 2012 law that allowed former Gov. Dave Heineman to approve
the route of the Keystone XL pipeline through the state. Landowners
and activists were planning to testify in support of the measure later
in the day at a committee hearing. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) | State
Sen. Ernie Chambers of Omaha speaks Wednesday, March 11, 2015, under
the statue of Abraham Lincoln during a rally outside the State Capitol
in Lincoln, Neb., in support of LB 473, a measure he introduced, to
repeal a 2012 law that allowed former Gov.  Dave Heineman to approve
the route of the Keystone XL pipeline through the state. Landowners
and activists were planning to testify in support of the measure
later in the day at a committee hearing. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) |
Landowner Byron "Stix" Steskal speaks, Wednesday, March 11, 2015,
under the statue of Abraham Lincoln during a rally outside the State
Capitol in Lincoln, Neb., in support of LB 473, a measure to repeal
a 2012 law that allowed former Gov. Dave Heineman to approve the
route of the Keystone XL pipeline through the state. Steskal and
other activists were planning to testify in support of the measure
later in the day at a committee hearing. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik)

The Associated Press

Document APRS000020150311eb3b007f0


## Codes

* @iteration 2022-03-03
* #official_arena
