## REUTERS AMERICA NEWS PLAN FOR THURSDAY, NOV 13/FRIDAY, NOV 14


5608 words

13 November 2014

23:01

Reuters News

LBA

English

Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.


REUTERS AMERICA AFTERNOON NEWS PLAN FOR THURSDAY, NOV 13/FRIDAY, NOV 14

LATEST AND PLANNED U.S. NEWS COVERAGE (ALL TIMES ET)

Top stories as of 5 p.m. on Thursday.

To find stories, search by Slug or Headline Keyword in your CMS or
Advanced Search in Media Express.

For story queries, please contact us.general-news@thomsonreuters.com

For photo queries use USCanada-Pictures-Editors@thomsonreuters.com

BREAKING

Grand jury testimony in black Missouri teen's slaying nearly done
-attorney

CLAYTON, Mo. - The grand jury decision on whether to indict a white
Missouri police officer for fatally shooting an unarmed black teenager
is nearing, a lawyer for the family said on Thursday, calling for
calm in a situation that has put police and residents on edge.
(USA-MISSOURI/SHOOTING (UPDATE 3), moved at 3:50 p.m., 425 words)

EXCLUSIVE-U.S.  FTC asking Apple about health data protection

SAN FRANCISCO/WASHINGTON - The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
seeking assurances from Apple Inc that it will prevent sensitive
health data collected by its upcoming smartwatch and other mobile
devices from being used without owners' consent, two sources told
Reuters. (APPLE-FTC/ (EXCLUSIVE), moved at 4:01 p.m., 615 words)

Massey ex-CEO indicted for conduct linked to 2010 W.V. mine blast

Donald Blankenship, a former chief executive of Massey Energy
Co , was indicted on Thursday on charges that he violated
federal mine safety laws prior to the April 2010 explosion at the
company's Upper Big Branch Mine in West Virginia, which killed 29
people. (MASSEY-INDICTMENT/CEO (URGENT), moved, 115 words)

TOP STORIES

U.S. House set to vote on Keystone oil pipeline on Friday

WASHINGTON - The Republican-led U.S. House of Representatives
prepared to vote on Friday to approve the Keystone XL oil pipeline
that will help transport oil from Canada to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico,
but the bill still faces hurdles to final passage.  (USA-KEYSTONE/
(UPDATE 3, PIX, GRAPHIC), moved at 4:24 p.m., 686 words) See also: The
six-year battle over the Keystone XL pipeline (USA-KEYSTONE/CHRONOLOGY
(TIMELINE), moved, 700 words); FACTBOX-Five facts about Keystone XL
pipeline (USA-KEYSTONE/ (FACTBOX), moved at 2:34 p.m., 331 words)

Obama plan to shield up to 5 million immigrants from deportation -
NY Times

WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama plans to announce an overhaul of
U.S. immigration policy through executive action that would shield up
to 5 million undocumented immigrants, the New York Times reported on
Thursday. The newspaper, citing administration officials with direct
knowledge of the plan, said the overhaul may be announced as soon
as next week. (USA-IMMIGRATION/OBAMA (UPDATE 1), moved at 1:16 p.m.,
220 words)


Islamic State leader urges attacks in Saudi Arabia -speech

BEIRUT - Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi called for attacks
against the rulers of Saudi Arabia in a speech purported to be in his
name on Thursday, saying his self-declared caliphate was expanding
there and in four other Arab countries.  (MIDEAST-CRISIS/BAGHDADI
(UPDATE 3), moved, 692 words)

Moscow and Kiev trade accusations, U.S. warns Russia against escalation

MOSCOW/KIEV - Moscow and Kiev accused each other on Thursday of
violating a ceasefire and the United States warned Russia the West
might punish it further for its "military escalation" of the Ukraine
crisis.  Ukraine accused Russia of sending soldiers and weapons to
help separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine launch a new offensive in a
conflict that has killed more than 4,000 people. Russia warned Kiev
that any resumption of hostilities against the separatists would
be catastrophic for Ukraine. Increasing violence, truce violations
and reports of unmarked armed convoys traveling from the direction
of the Russian border have aroused fears that a shaky Sept. 5 truce
could collapse. (UKRAINE-CRISIS/MILITARY (UPDATE 3, PIX), moved at
1:08 p.m., 528 words)

Americans are quitting their jobs more -- and that's a good thing

WASHINGTON - In a paradoxically good development for the U.S. economy,
Americans quit their jobs in September at the fastest rate in
over six years. Other data on Thursday showed the number of new
jobless claims rose last week but remained near a 14-year low, and
the two readings suggested the U.S. labor market was moving toward
full health. Two percent of U.S. job-holders, or about 2.8 million
workers, left their jobs under their own volition in September, the
Labor Department said. That's important for two reasons. (USA-ECONOMY/
(WRAPUP 2, GRAPHICS), moved at 11:51 a.m., by Jason Lange, 450 words)
See also: U.S. jobless claims rise but still close to 14-year low
(USA-ECONOMY/UNEMPLOYMENT, moved, 250 words)

Obama optimistic on change in Myanmar, more work to be done

NAYPYITAW, Myanmar - President Barack Obama said on Thursday he
was optimistic about political change in Myanmar and called on the
country's top politicians to push on with reform toward a free,
inclusive and transparent election in 2015. (MYANMAR-USA/ (UPDATE 2,
TV, PIX), moved at 12:34 p.m., 382 words)

European space probe marooned in comet's shadows

FRANKFURT - A probe that landed on a comet in a first for space
exploration has ended up in the shadow of a cliff, about a kilometer
(0.6 miles) from its intended resting place, the European Space Agency
said on Thursday.  (SPACE-COMET/ (UPDATE 1, PIX), moved, 461 words)

WASHINGTON

Top U.S. general mulls sending advisers with Iraqi ground troops

WASHINGTON - The top U.S. general told lawmakers on Thursday he would
consider sending American military advisers to accompany Iraqi troops
if they advance against Islamic State

militants in the difficult terrain near Mosul and the Iraqi border
with Syria. (MIDEAST-CRISIS/USA, moved at 4:49 p.m., 381 words)

U.S. Capitol workers, others strike for higher pay, union

WASHINGTON - Hundreds of striking federal contract workers, including
for the first time some from the U.S. Capitol, rallied on Thursday to
urge President Barack Obama to boost pay and spur unionization. The
one-day strike by federal contract workers was the 10th organized
by the Good Jobs Nation campaign for better pay and benefits since
May 2013.  (USA-DISTRICTOFCOLUMBIA/STRIKE (UPDATE 1, TV, PIX), moved
at 11:52 a.m., 374 words)


Senate Republicans select McConnell for majority leader

WASHINGTON - U.S. Senate Republicans on Thursday unanimously chose
current Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky as their majority
leader for the next congressional session, according to a senior
Republican aide. (USA-CONGRESS/MCCONNELL ( PIX), moved, 62 words)
See also: Senate

Democrats vote for Reid as minority leader (USA-CONGRESS/REID (PIX),
moved at 12:53 p.m., 50 words)

Ex-Im bank acknowledges errors in some politically sensitive data

WASHINGTON - The U.S. Export-Import Bank has mischaracterized
potentially hundreds of large companies and units of multinational
conglomerates as small businesses, a flaw in its record keeping that
could undermine the export lender's survival strategy. A Reuters
analysis showed companies owned by billionaires like Warren Buffet and
Mexico's Carlos Slim, as well by Japanese and European conglomerates,
were listed as small businesses and Ex-Im acknowledged errors in
its data in response to those findings. (USA-TRADE/EXIM (EXCLUSIVE),
moved at 12:24 p.m., 715 words)


Ventamatic recalls misting fans over shock, fire risk

WASHINGTON - Ventamatic Ltd is recalling about 450 Cool Draft misting
fans because improper grounding raises the risk of electric shock and
fire, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said on Thursday. The
Mineral Wells, Texas, company knows of two incidents with the misting
fans. (USA-RECALL/FANS, moved, 60 words)

Biofuels mandate delays could set stage for reform push

WASHINGTON - The long awaited final U.S. biofuels use targets for 2014
may not be much changed from the proposal, but the repeated delays to
the renewable fuel program may provide ammunition for congressional
opponents of the mandate next year. (USA-BIOFUELS/CONGRESS, expect
by 4 p.m., 300 words)


U.S. Navy strategy for long warship deployment starts in Asia

SAN DIEGO, Calif. - An upcoming 16-month deployment of the USS Fort
Worth, a new coastal warship built by Lockheed Martin Corp , kicks off
a new strategy by the Navy it says will save money and help maintain
a presence overseas despite tight budgets. (USA-NAVY/SHIP, moved,
404 words), See also USA-NAVY/SHIP (FACTBOX), moved

OTHER U.S. NEWS

Two people injured in shooting at Chicago-area shopping mall

CHICAGO - A man and a woman were shot and wounded on Thursday
afternoon in a shooting at a popular shopping mall just outside the
Chicago city limits, police said. The shooter at the Harlem Irving
Plaza mall in Norridge, just northwest of the city, is in custody
after what appears to have been a domestic incident, Norridge
Police said. No information was immediately available about the
suspect. (USA-CHICAGO/SHOOTING-MALL, moved at 4:04 p.m., 115 words)

Chicago college student missing since Friday

CHICAGO - A college student last seen entering the Chicago Board
of Trade building in the city's downtown business district has
been missing for nearly a week, police and school officials said on
Thursday. Chan Williams, 20, last seen on Friday evening entering the
Chicago Board of Trade building, was reported missing by his father,
according to

Loyola University Chicago .  (USA-CHICAGO/MISSING, moved at 3:14 p.m.,
117 words)


Smithsonian unveils $2 bln plan to revamp part of National Mall

WASHINGTON - The Smithsonian Institution , the world's biggest museum
complex, unveiled a $2 billion plan on Thursday to revamp the south
side of the National Mall, a favorite draw for Washington's millions of
tourists. The proposed master plan for the half-mile (800-meter) strip
of museums, gardens and buildings along the U.S. capital's Independence
Avenue will be carried out over 10 to 20 years starting in 2016, the
Institution said in a statement. (USA-DISTRICTOFCOLUMBIA/SMITHSONIAN
(UPDATE 1), moved at 2:11 p.m., 374 words)

Maine's largest city cuts spending in dispute over immigrant aid

PORTLAND, Maine - Maine's largest city has begun clamping down on
spending as newly re-elected Republican Governor Paul LePage makes
good on a campaign promise to cut funding to cities and towns that
give aid to undocumented immigrants. (USA-MAINE/IMMIGRATION, moved
at 2:13 p.m., 398 words)


University of North Carolina to face accrediting inquiry for academic
fraud

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. - An accrediting agency sent a letter to the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

on Thursday, asking the school to prove its compliance with the group's
standards after a probe found that more than 3,000 students received
credit for fake classes. The public university could face warnings
or probation as a result of the academic fraud findings, which showed
student-athletes accounted for nearly half of enrollments in "irregular
classes" over an 18-year period. (USA-UNC/FRAUD, moved at 3:28 p.m.,
300 words)

Fate of Briton serving life term for Florida murders now in judge's
hands

MIAMI - A Florida judge on Thursday wrapped up a three-day hearing
to re-examine the 27-year-old conviction of a British man serving a
life sentence for an execution-style double murder in Miami that his
lawyers say he did not commit. Attorneys for Krishna Maharaj, 75, said
new evidence showed the killings of father and son Derrick and Duane
Moo Young at a downtown Miami hotel in 1986 were actually carried out
by a hit man working for notorious Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar.
(USA-FLORIDA/MURDER (PIX), moved at 4:33 p.m., 398 words)

Miami jury begins deliberations in Boston Scientific mesh trial

MIAMI - A federal jury in Miami began Thursday to weigh whether
Boston Scientific Corp is liable to four women who say they were
injured by the company's transvaginal mesh devices in one of the
first federal trials in thousands of suits over the devices. (BOSTON
SCIENTIFIC-MESH/TRIAL, moved at 4:17 p.m., 409 words)

Ex-aide to Gabrielle Giffords faces recount in U.S. House race

TUCSON, Ariz. - U.S. Representative Ron Barber, an Arizona Democrat
who was an aide to Gabrielle Giffords, faces a recount after his
Republican challenger finished the race for a congressional border
district with 161 votes ahead of him. (USA-ARIZONA/ELECTION, moved
at 3:04 p.m., 366 words)

Son of U.S. senator pleads not guilty to animal cruelty charges

PHOENIX - The son of U.S. Senator Jeff Flake and his wife pleaded
not guilty on Thursday to multiple animal cruelty charges after
21 dogs died while the couple were caretakers at a boarding
kennel that overheated in suburban Phoenix, court officials
said. (USA-ARIZONA/DOGS, moved at 3:39 p.m., 395 words)

Father of boys found in squalid Denver home pleads guilty to abuse

DENVER - A father of four malnourished boys found living amid cat
feces in a squalid Denver home and unable to speak except by grunts
pleaded guilty on Thursday to felony child abuse, prosecutors said.
(USA-COLORADO/ABUSE (PIX), moved at 4 p.m., 363 words)

College football player in Oregon charged with murder

A Willamette University football player from California has
been charged with murder after a 66-year-old man was found
dead near an intersection in Salem, Oregon, prosecutors said on
Thursday. Authorities said Beau W. Smith, a 22-year-old senior at
Willamette, a private liberal arts university in Salem, was accused
of killing Michael Hampshire, who was found dead on Wednesday.
(USA-CRIME/OREGON, moved at 2:48 p.m., 215 words)

Hunt on for California driver who killed teen while fleeing police

Police in Northern California have recovered a car they believe
struck and killed a 14-year-old boy at a crosswalk during a police
chase this week, but were still searching for the driver, authorities
said on Thursday. (USA-CHASE/CALIFORNIA, moved at 3:41 p.m., 367 words)

Wyoming authorities warn of dangerous wildlife predator on the loose

Wyoming authorities on Thursday warned residents of a sprawling
Indian reservation to be on the lookout for a dangerous predator
suspected in the death of a 40-year-old woman who died after being
attacked by at least one unidentified animal. (USA-PREDATOR/WYOMING,
moved at 4:37 p.m., 258 words)

Famous Las Vegas gambler gets probation in card-marking case

SAN DIEGO - A Las Vegas gambler who once famously turned $50
into $40 million and then lost it all has been sentenced to three
years' probation for a card-marking scheme that got him arrested
at a California casino, a San Diego prosecutor said on Thursday.
(USA-GAMER/CALIFORNIA, moved at 4:11 p.m., 372 words)

Boston Fire Department official indicted for fraud

BOSTON - A Boston Fire Department district chief was indicted on
Thursday on charges he stole more than $40,000 in public funds between
2008 and 2011, according to the Massachusetts District Attorney's
Office. Edward Scigliano, 45, was indicted by a grand jury on five
counts of procurement fraud and five counts of larceny for allegedly
using two separate schemes to enrich himself, according to the release.
(USA-MASSACHUSETTS/FRAUD, moved at 4:40 p.m., 176 words)

Keystone pipeline legislation unlikely to sway Louisiana U.S. Senate
race -analysts

NEW ORLEANS - A push by U.S. Senator Mary Landrieu to force a Senate
vote to authorize the completion of the contentious Keystone XL
pipeline is unlikely to give the Louisiana Democrat the boost she needs
to win a runoff election next month against her Republican challenger,
political analysts said.  (USA-ELECTIONS/LOUISIANA-KEYSTONE, expect
by 5 p.m., 400 words)

New York City jobs growth seen fastest in 24 years

NEW YORK - New York City is experiencing its fastest rate of job growth
in nearly 25 years but most of the jobs are being created in low-paying
industries, according to a report by the city's top financial watchdog
on Thursday. (USA-NEWYORKCITY/ECONOMY (GRAPHIC), moved, 250 words)

Boat show booking breathes new life into long abandoned Miami stadium

MIAMI - Preservationists seeking to restore an iconic graffiti-covered
marine stadium received a boost on Thursday with the announcement that
the Miami International Boat Show is moving to the waterside arena fell
out of use following Hurricane Andrew in 1992. (USA-FLORIDA/STADIUM,
moved at 12:47 p.m., 350 words)

Florida to execute man after 20 years on death row

TALLAHASSEE - After 20 years on death row Florida has set the date
of Nov. 13 for the execution of Chadwick Banks, who shot his wife
to death as she slept in their home Sept 24, 1992. Banks also raped
and killed his 10-year-old stepdaughter. (USA-FLORIDA/EXECUTION,
moved at 12:29 p.m., will be led, 239 words)

Fiancée of Liberian who died of Ebola in Dallas to write book

DALLAS - The fiancée of the Liberian man who died of Ebola in Dallas
last month has landed a book deal to write her memoir for a publishing
company affiliated with movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, the company said
on Thursday. (HEALTH-EBOLA/USA-BOOK, moved at 11:46 a.m., 250 words)

Arkansas teen arrested after failed attempt at driver's license

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. - An Arkansas teenager's attempt to land a driver's
license landed him in jail after he was charged with driving to
the test site without a license and smashing into a state trooper's
patrol car and a house when trying to flee. (USA-ARKANSAS/DRIVER,
moved at 11:55 a.m., 140 words)

Chicago parks group sues over planned George Lucas museum

CHICAGO - A Chicago parks protection group sued the city on Thursday
over a planned museum by "Star Wars" filmmaker George Lucas, saying
the site is on a lakefront spot that cannot be handed over to a private
entity. (USA-LUCAS/MUSEUM (UPDATE 1), moved at 1:45 p.m., 360 words)

EBOLA

Mali steps up border controls after Ebola case arrives from Guinea

BAMAKO - Mali said it was reinforcing health controls at border posts
but has no plans to close its frontiers after a man with Ebola arrived
from Guinea and infected others including a nurse who has died of
the virus. (HEALTH-EBOLA/MALI (UPDATE 1, PIX, TV), moved, 400 words)

Liberia won't extend Ebola state of emergency, says president

MONROVIA - Liberia's President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said on Thursday
she would not seek an extension to a state of emergency imposed in
August over Ebola, which has hit the country harder than any other
this year. (HEALTH-EBOLA/LIBERIA (UPDATE 1), moved, 250 words)


Doctors Without Borders in Guinea and Liberia to test Ebola drugs
next month

LONDON - Clinical trials of three potential Ebola treatments
will begin in December in Guinea and Liberia at medical centers
run by Doctors Without Borders , the medical charity said on
Thursday. (HEALTH-EBOLA/TRIALS, moved, 300 words)

Trial nears end for Pennsylvania man accused of murder, dismemberment
of woman

STROUDSBURG, Pa. - Closing arguments were expected to begin in
the trial of Charles Ray Hicks, accused of beating, strangling and
dismembering a woman whose body parts were stuffed into garbage bags
and strewn along two interstate highways. Hicks is facing a potential
death penalty, if convicted. (USA-PENNSYLVANIA/DISMEMBERMENT, timing
Friday TBD, 400 words)

Sentencing set for California boy accused of setting transgender teen
on fire

A California teen accused of setting fire to a transgender teen's skirt
as the victim slept on a public bus in the city of Oakland earlier last
year is set to be sentenced on Friday after pleading guilty to an adult
hate crime charge, officials said. (Slug, timing on Friday, length TBD)

Man linked to Virginia student's disappearance due in court on
rape charge

FAIRFAX. Va. - Jesse Matthew Jr. is scheduled to appear in Fairfax
County court where he faces three felony charges in a 2005 sexual
assault. Matthew has been charged in connection with the disappearance
of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, whose body was
discovered last month.  (USA-VIRGINIA/STUDENT, timing on Friday,
length TBD)

First Muslim prayer service at Washington National Cathedral

WASHINGTON - Washington National Cathedral hosts first Muslim Friday
prayers, saying it is a gesture of deeper relationship between the
two monotheistic religions. The Episcopal cathedral is a religious
symbol for the U.S. and where the Bush administration held a memorial
service after 9/11. (USA-DISTRICTOFCOLUMBIA/MUSLIM, timing on Friday,
length TBD)

HEALTH

U.S. youth smoking, increased use of e-cigarettes a worry - CDC


ATLANTA - Fewer U.S. high school students are smoking traditional
cigarettes but youth tobacco use and the increasing popularity of
electronic cigarettes remain causes for concern, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention

said on Thursday. (USA-SMOKING/YOUTH, moved at 1:41 p.m., 379 words)

School lunches may be better than lunch packed at home

In a study of three rural Virginia elementary schools, both packed
and school lunches almost entirely met nutrition standards, but those
packed at home tended to have more calories, fat and saturated fat.
(HEALTH-NUTRITION/SCHOOL-LUNCH, moved at 2:21 p.m., 543 words)

Progress on eliminating measles has stalled, WHO warns

LONDON - Progress towards wiping out measles worldwide has stalled,
with deaths from the highly contagious disease rising last year and
poor vaccine coverage leading to large outbreaks, the World Health
Organization said on Thursday.  More than 145,000 people died of
measles in 2013, up from 122,000 in 2012. (HEALTH-MEASLES/WHO, moved,
400 words)

LIFESTYLE

Yearning for a challenge, two top chefs plan restaurant in Cuba

MEXICO CITY - They have already earned a place in the firmament of the
world's best chefs. Now Basque chef Andoni Luis Aduriz and Mexico's
Enrique Olvera have set their sights on one of the world's toughest
markets: communist-run Cuba. (CUBA-CHEFS/, moved, 424 words)

Jeweler Graff buys back ruby for record $8.6 million at Sotheby's


GENEVA - London luxury jeweler Laurence Graff has paid a record $8.6
million for a Burmese ruby, the top lot at a Geneva auction marked
by strong prices for fine diamonds and rare colored stones, Sotheby's
said on Thursday. (AUCTION-JEWELS/ (PIX, TV), moved, 250 words)

ENTERTAINMENT

A Minute With: Steve Carell on his creepy turn in 'Foxcatcher'

BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. - Hollywood makeup wizardry made comic Steve
Carell unrecognizable for his latest star turn as heir John du Pont
in director Bennett Miller's "Foxcatcher." (FILM-STEVECARELL, PIX,
TV, moved, 400 words)

For 'Dumb and Dumber To' directors, bad jokes are worth the fight

LOS ANGELES - After two decades, hit goofball comedy "Dumb and Dumber"
is back as "Dumb and Dumber To," and the sequel owes a big thanks to
an unlikely ally: cable television. (FILM-DUMBANDDUMBERTO/DIRECTORS
(PIX, TV), moved, by Eric Kelsey, 400 words)

Iranian blues and jazz bands find fans in Tehran

DUBAI - Behzad Omrani grew up in Tehran, in a house ringing to
the sounds of his father's record collection - mostly the twangs
and twirls of American Country & Western. Years later he formed
Bomrani, one of the Islamic Republic's first country-blues bands,
and one of a handful of groups that has started disrupting the local
music scene with performances a world away from Iran's traditional
rhythms. (IRAN-MUSIC/, moved, 421 words)

SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY

Chimpanzee study reveals the value of being an ape bully

WASHINGTON - For male chimpanzees, there may be a benefit to being a
bully. Scientists said on Thursday a study of chimpanzees in Tanzania
spanning 17 years found that males that subjected females to long-term
aggressive behavior, often including physical attacks, greatly improved
their chances of fathering babies with them. (SCIENCE-CHIMPANZEES/
(PIX), moved, 405 words)


U.S. government warns of bug in Apple 's iOS software

WASHINGTON - The U.S. government warned iPhone and iPad users on
Thursday to be on the alert for hackers who may exploit a vulnerability
in Apple Inc 's iOS operating system that would enable them to steal
sensitive data.  There was the potential for hacks using a newly
identified technique known as the "Masque Attack," the government
said in an online bulletin from the National Cybersecurity and
Communications Integration Center and the U.S. Computer Emergency
Readiness Teams. (APPLE-CYBERSECURITY/DHS, moved at 1:30 p.m.,
220 words)

Infanticide common among adult males in many mammal species

WASHINGTON - Predators such as leopards and cheetahs are not the
biggest mortal threat to baby Chacma baboons, large and aggressive
monkeys that live across southern Africa. That threat comes from
adult males of their own species. (SCIENCE-INFANTICIDE/ (PIX), moved,
425 words)

Warming climate may fuel more lightning

WASHINGTON - Rising global temperatures may cause a big jolt in the
number of lightning strikes in the United States over the rest of
the 21st century in the latest example of extreme weather spawned
by climate change, scientists say. (SCIENCE-LIGHTNING/ (PIX), moved,
410 words)

WORLD

Niger's capital city fires entire municipal police force after strike

NIAMEY - The mayor of Niger's capital dismissed the city's entire
204-strong municipal police force on Thursday after officers clashed
with security forces during a protest over working conditions.
(NIGER-POLICE/STRIKE (UPDATE 1), moved, 281 words)

Mexico captures son of cartel leader 'El Mayo' Zambada

MEXICO CITY - Mexico's army has captured the son of Ismael "El Mayo"
Zambada, the leader of the powerful Sinaloa cartel, a government
source said on Thursday. The son, Ismael Zambada Imperial, nicknamed
"El Mayito Gordo," was detained by the Mexican army in a town close
to the Sinaloan capital of Culiacan, the criminal group's principal
headquarters, local media said. (MEXICO-DRUGTRAFFICKING/, moved at
4:09 p.m., 118 words)

Police hunt big cat, "probably tiger," on loose near Disneyland Paris

PARIS - A large feline, probably a tiger, was seen roaming near
Disneyland Paris theme park on Thursday, triggering an urgent police
hunt and warnings for people to stay indoors and to fetch children
home from school by car. (FRANCE-TIGER/, moved, 217 words)

Nigerian army, hunters and vigilantes retake towns from Boko Haram


YOLA, Nigeria - The Nigerian army, aided by local hunters and civilian
vigilantes, has recaptured two northeastern towns that had been
overrun by Islamist insurgents, a state governor and residents told
Reuters on Thursday. (NIGERIA-VIOLENCE, moved at 3 p.m., 367 words)

Rome evacuates children from immigrant center as violence mounts

ROME - Rome's mayor ordered the evacuation on Thursday of 45 children
from a center for immigrants that has been under attack for four days
by local people. (ITALY-IMMIGRATION/VIOLENCE, moved, 306 words)

Dutch fighters intercept Russian plane over Baltic Sea

AMSTERDAM - Two Dutch F16 fighter jets, part of a NATO force patrolling
the skies above the Baltic states, intercepted a Russian Ilyushin
transport aircraft flying near Estonian and Lithuanian air space,
the Netherlands said on Thursday. (NATO-BALTIC/ (UPDATE 2), moved at
2:02 p.m., 384 words)

Court cuts Berlusconi associates' jail terms in prostitution trial

MILAN - An Italian appeals court on Thursday cut jail sentences given
to three associates of Silvio Berlusconi for procuring prostitutes
for "bunga bunga" parties at the former prime minister's home.
(ITALY-BERLUSCONI/, moved, 233 words)

Iraq needs 80,000 good troops to retake lost territory - Joint Chiefs

WASHINGTON - Iraq will need about 80,000 effective military troops
to retake the terrain it lost to Islamic State militants and restore
its border with Syria, Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of staff, told a congressional hearing. Dempsey
said a request for more U.S. forces in Iraq would create centers to
help train the additional troops needed.  (MIDEAST-CRISIS/USA-IRAQ,
moved at 12:31 p.m.)

Tainted drugs suspected in Indian sterilization deaths

PANDARI, India - Tainted or sub-standard drugs probably led to
the deaths of 13 Indian women after sterilization surgery at a
family-planning "camp", and owners of the factories that produced them
have been summoned for questioning, a senior official said on Thursday.
Meanwhile, the doctor who carried out the sterilization of 83 women in
under three hours at a hospital in the eastern state of Chhattisgarh
denied reports the equipment he used was rusty or dirty and blamed
adulterated medicines for the tragedy. (INDIA-HEALTH/STERILIZATION
(UPDATE 2, PIX, GRAPHIC), moved, 800 words)

France urges immediate reversal of Israel settlement decision

PARIS - France called on Israel to "immediately" reverse a decision to
approve the building of 200 new homes in settlements in East Jerusalem,
a move it said directly threatened a two-state peace solution.
(MIDEAST-PALESTINIANS/FRANCE (CORRECTED), moved at 1:05 p.m.,
130 words)

Kurdistan region, Baghdad reach deal on oil exports and payments

BAGHDAD/ARBIL - The government of Iraq and the semi-autonomous region
of Kurdistan have reached a deal to ease tensions over Kurdish oil
exports and civil service payments from Baghdad, Iraq's finance
minister told Reuters on Thursday. (IRAQ-KURDISTAN/ (UPDATE 2),
moved at 1:47 p.m., 300 words)

At Iraq refinery, sniper trained in Syria awaits Islamic State


BAGHDAD - After Iraqi sniper Ali al-Tulaibawi returned from his
training on the battlefields of Syria his commander sent him on a
months-long mission to shoot Islamic State

militants from the towers of Iraq's biggest oil refinery.
(MIDEAST-CRISIS/IRAQ-BAIJI, moved, 500 words)

BUSINESS AND MARKETS

EXCLUSIVE-Ex-wife of US oil baron to appeal $1 bln divorce award

Sue Ann Hamm, the ex-wife of Oklahoma oil magnate Harold Hamm
who was awarded cash and assets worth more than $1 billion in the
couple's divorce this week, plans to appeal the judgment on grounds
that it grossly undervalues the marital wealth she is entitled to.
(HAMM-DIVORCE/APPEAL (URGENT), moved, 488 words)

Hachette and Amazon reach agreement on e-book sales


Hachette Book Group and Amazon.com Inc said on Thursday they reached
a multi-year agreement for e-book and print book sales after months
of bitter fighting that pitted writers and publishers against the
world's largest online retail store. (AMAZON-HACHETTE (UPDATE 2),
moved, 392 words)


BlackBerry signs up Samsung , others, in new mobile services push

SAN FRANCISCO - BlackBerry Ltd struck partnerships with Samsung
Electronics Co Ltd and other high-profile players to enhance the
capabilities of the new mobile-device management and security
platform it unveiled on Thursday, and its shares jumped 8
percent. (BLACKBERRY-ENTERPRISE/ (UPDATE 2, PIX), moved, 484 words)


Google contractor accuses company of pay, overtime violations in
lawsuit


Google was sued this week by a worker who claimed the company did not
pay overtime, improperly classified him as an independent contractor
then terminated him after he asked for more hours to be covered under
his contract. The case, filed in a New York federal court on Wednesday,
seeks to proceed as a collective action on behalf of other Google
Inc workers.  ( GOOGLE -OVERTIME/LAWSUIT, moved, 286 words)

Takata says it is subject of U.S. criminal probe on air bags

TOKYO/DETROIT - Japan's Takata Corp is the subject of a U.S. criminal
investigation over defective car air bags that have been linked
to five deaths, a spokesman said on Thursday. A federal grand
jury in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
has subpoenaed Takata's U.S. unit to produce documents on the
air bag defects, the spokesman said in Tokyo. The U.S. Senate
commerce committee is also likely to hold a hearing next week
to hear testimony from Takata executives on air bag defects and
recalls. (AUTOS-TAKATA/SUBPOENA (UPDATE 4, PIX), moved at 1:09 p.m.,
400 words)

Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway to buy

P&G 's Duracell


Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc

said it would buy Procter & Gamble Co 's

Duracell battery business in exchange for its entire $4.7 billion
stake in the world's No. 1 household products maker. (DURACELL-M&A/
(UPDATE 2), moved, 300 words)


Wal-Mart 's U.S. same-store sales show first growth in 7 quarters


Wal-Mart Stores Inc reported a higher-than-expected profit as
comparable sales at its U.S. stores rose for the first time in seven
quarters, helped by its small-format 'Neighborhood Market' stores
and higher prices. ( WALMART -RESULTS/ (UPDATE 1), moved, 300 words)

India wins U.S. support for food scheme, ends WTO blockade

NEW DELHI/WASHINGTON - India won U.S. support for its food stockpiling
scheme on Thursday, rescuing the World Trade Organization from
paralysis and giving new Prime Minister Narendra Modi a victory without
major concessions. (INDIA-TRADE/ (UPDATE 3), moved, 500 words) See
also: U.S. says looks forward to full Bali package after agreement
with India (INDIA-TRADE/USA, moved, 90 words)

Plains farmland values mostly steady, loan demand up

CHICAGO - Farmland values in the central Plains held mostly steady in
the July-Sept quarter compared to a year ago, with land prices and
loan demand generally tracking commodity price trends, the Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City said on Thursday. (USA-FARMLAND/PLAINS,
moved, 418 words) See also: U.S. Midwest farmland values steady,
weakness seen ahead (USA-FARMLAND/MIDWEST, moved, 400 words)

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

For story queries, please contact us.general-news@thomsonreuters.com

Released: 2014-11-13T23:01:47.000Z

Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC

Document LBA0000020141113eabd00q26


## Codes

* @iteration 2022-03-03
* #duplicate
