## AP Top News at 5:58 p.m. EDT


843 words

12 August 2015

23:58

Associated Press Newswires

APRS

English

\(c\) 2015. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

IS affiliate in Egypt releases image of slain Croat captive

CAIRO (AP) — A Croatian hostage abducted in Egypt by Islamic
State militants has been beheaded, according to a gruesome image
circulated Wednesday online — a killing that, if confirmed, would
be the first of its kind involving a foreign captive in the country,
undermining government efforts to project stability and buttress
an economic turnaround. The killing of the 30-year-old oil and gas
sector surveyor would deal a blow to President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi's
attempts to burnish the country's reputation a week after he unveiled
a new extension of the Suez canal in a much-hyped ceremony attended
by international dignitaries.

Jimmy Carter says he has cancer, revealed by recent surgery

ATLANTA (AP) — Former President Jimmy Carter announced he has been
diagnosed with cancer in a brief statement issued Wednesday. "Recent
liver surgery revealed that I have cancer that now is in other parts
of my body," Carter said in the statement released by the Carter
Center . "I will be rearranging my schedule as necessary so I can
undergo treatment by physicians at Emory Healthcare."

The Latest: Well-wishers tweet support for Jimmy Carter

ATLANTA (AP) — The latest on former President Jimmy Carter, who
said Wednesday that he has cancer (all times local): 6:45 p.m.

Officials: At least 13 dead in China port explosions

TIANJIN, China (AP) — Huge explosions sparked overnight at a
warehouse for dangerous materials in the northeastern Chinese port
of Tianjin killed at least 13 people, injured hundreds and sent
massive fireballs into the night sky, officials and state media
outlets said Thursday.  CCTV, the state-run broadcaster, said that
another 248 people had been admitted to hospitals in the city, east of
Beijing. The explosions late Wednesday knocked off doors of buildings
in the area and shattered windows up to several kilometers away.

Hometown of Croat allegedly slain by IS in disbelief

VRPOLJE, Croatia (AP) — In Tomislav Salopek's hometown Vrpolje in
Croatia, residents refuse to believe Wednesday's reports that the
30-year-old surveyor appears to have become the first Croat to be
beheaded by the Islamic State group.  "No, no, no," Goran Blazanovic
kept repeating as he sat in the local cafe filled with pale and quiet
guests who were switching from one news portal to another on their
smartphone screens, looking for signs that would give them hope that
the reports were mistaken.

Email troubles persisting, Clinton camp reassures backers

WASHINGTON (AP) — Try as she might to focus on the policies she
wants to enact if elected president, Hillary Rodham Clinton just
can't dig out of her inbox. Clinton's email problems are getting
worse. She agreed to turn over her private server to the Justice
Department this week on the same day Congress got word that at least
two emails that traversed the device while she was secretary of state
contained information that warranted one of the government's highest
levels of classification.

AP Exclusive: Cuba dissidents won't attend US Embassy event

WASHINGTON (AP) — Cuban dissidents, so long the center of U.S. policy
toward the island, won't be invited to Secretary of State John Kerry's
historic flag-raising at the U.S. Embassy in Havana on Friday, vividly
illustrating how U.S. policy is shifting focus to its single-party
government. Kerry intends to meet more quietly with prominent
activists later in the day, officials said. The Cuban government
labels its domestic opponents as traitorous U.S. mercenaries. As the
two countries have moved to restore relations, Cuba has almost entirely
stopped meeting with American politicians who visit dissidents during
trips to Havana.

As anniversary and protests fade, Ferguson looks ahead

FERGUSON, Mo. (AP) — By Wednesday, police outnumbered protesters in
the St. Louis suburb that launched the "Black Lives Matter" movement,
signaling that the nightly demonstrations could be fading after the
anniversary of Michael Brown's death. But Ferguson, and the issues
that elevated it to national prominence, are sure to be closely
watched in the months to come. A look at what's ahead: \_\_\_

Keystone XL: US review taking 5 times longer than average

WASHINGTON (AP) — The federal review of the proposed Keystone XL oil
pipeline from Canada to Texas has dragged on for nearly seven years,
more than five times the average for such applications. The White House
insists it's simply following a standard and well-established process.

Judge puts NFL on hot seat as he belittles 'Deflategate'

NEW YORK (AP) — A federal judge put the NFL on the defensive over
its four-game suspension of New England Patriots

quarterback Tom Brady on Wednesday, demanding to know what evidence
directly links Brady to deflating footballs and belittling the drama
of the controversy. "What is the direct evidence that implicates Mr.
Brady?" Judge Richard M. Berman repeatedly asked NFL lawyer Daniel
L. Nash at the first hearing in the civil case in Manhattan federal
court as Brady and Commissioner Roger Goodell looked on.

The Associated Press

Document APRS000020150812eb8c007g3
